## Distributions of GNU Emacs

### [Emacs modified for macOS](https://vigou3.github.io/emacs-modified-macos)
	
*Emacs Modified for macOS* is a distribution of GNU Emacs bundled with
a few select packages for LaTeX users and R developers, most notably
[AUCTeX](https://www.gnu.org/software/auctex/") and
[ESS](https://ess.r-project.org/).
[[Project page](https://vigou3.github.io/emacs-modified-macos)]
[[Source][https://github.com/vigou3/emacs-modified-macos)]

### [Emacs modified for Windows](https://vigou3.github.io/emacs-modified-windows)
	
As above, with in addition an installation wizard.
[[Project page](https://vigou3.github.io/emacs-modified-windows)]
[[Source][https://github.com/vigou3/emacs-modified-windows)]

## R documentation and packages

### [Introduction à la programmation en R](https://vigou3.github.io/introduction-programmation-r/)

There exist many textbooks on applications of R in natural sciences,
social sciences, finance, etc. The niche of *Introduction à la
programmation en R* (in French) is rather on learning the programming
language underlying the statistical applications.
[[Project page](https://vigou3.github.io/introduction-programmation-r/)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/introduction-programmation-r)]

### [actuar](https://cran.r-project.org/package=actuar)

The first R package dedicated specifically to actuarial computations:
modeling of loss distributions; risk theory and ruin theory;
simulation of compound models, discrete mixtures and compound
hierarchical models; credibility theory. Support for many additional
probability distributions to model insurance loss amounts and loss
frequency: 19 continuous heavy tailed distributions; the
Poisson-inverse Gaussian discrete distribution; zero-truncated and
zero-modified extensions of the standard discrete distributions.
Support for phase-type distributions commonly used to compute ruin
probabilities.
[[CRAN page](https://cran.r-project.org/package=actuar)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/actuar)]

### [expint](https://cran.r-project.org/package=expint) Exponential
integral and the incomplete gamma function.
[[CRAN page](https://cran.r-project.org/package=expint)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/expint)]


## LaTeX documentation and packages

### Rédaction avec LaTeX

*Rédaction avec LaTeX* is an introductory course (in French) for the
LaTeX typesetting system prepared for Bibliothèque of Université Laval
and based on a 200+ page reference manual. It is distributed as an
extension package through the Comprehensive TeX Archive Network (CTAN)
and is included in the [TeX Live](https://tug.org/texlive) and
[MiKTeX](https://miktex.org) distributions.
[[Project page](https://vigou3.github.io/formation-latex-ul)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/formation-latex-ul)]

### ulthese

ulthese is the document class to prepare theses and memoirs with LaTeX
compliant with the presentation rules set forth by the Faculty of
Graduate Studies of Université Laval. Note that the documentation for
the class and the comments in the templates are all written in French,
the language of the target audience.
[[CTAN](https://ctan.org/pkg/ulthese)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/ulthese)]

### francais-bst

Package francais-bst provides natbib compatible bibliography style
files to typeset bibliographies using the French typographic standards
set forth in Guide de la communication écrite by Marie Malo (Québec
Amérique, 1996). [[CTAN](https://ctan.org/pkg/francais-bst)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/francais-bst)]

### actuarialsymbol

Package actuarialsymbol provides commands to compose actuarial symbols
of life contingencies and financial mathematics characterized by
subscripts and superscripts on both sides of a principal symbol. The
package also features commands to easily and consistently position
precedence numbers above or below statuses in symbols for multiple
lives contracts. Since actuarial notation can get quite involved, the
package defines a number of shortcut macros to ease entry of the most
common elements. Appendix A of the package documentation lists the
commands to typeset a large selection of symbols of life
contingencies. 
[[CTAN](https://ctan.org/pkg/actuarialsymbol)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/actuarialsymbol)]

### actuarialangle

actuarialangle is a tiny LaTeX package that defines a single command
to typeset nice looking angles in actuarial and financial notation,
such as in symbols for the present value of an annuity.
[[CTAN](https://ctan.org/pkg/actuarialangle)]
[[Source](https://github.com/vigou3/actuarialangle)]
